So we are continuing to hear submissions this afternoon
from the Social Security Accident Compensation
and calculation of Weekly Income Amendment Bill.
And our first, this afternoon is, uh, John Miller Law.
Um, good afternoon, Milan. Believe you're good afternoon.
Can you guys see and hear me all right?
We can. Uh, great. Thank you. Fantastic.
Four 20 this afternoon. We have 10 minutes with you.
Um, so when you're ready, um, take it away
and if you wanna leave any type of questions, uh,
please feel free to do so.
Brilliant. I will certainly attempt to do so.
So, my name is Merlin Ians, as noted here on behalf
of John Miller Law and the A CC Futures Coalition,
which itself is a multidisciplinary panel
of interest in professionals and service providers for a CC.
Now, I was watching some of the earlier submissions,
and I noted that the question of
where exactly is this inequity kept popping up.
So I just wanted to provide an example, a practical example
of what exactly that might be.
So let's use the example of persons X and Y.
Now, both of these people were injured at the same time,
and a CC coverable circumstances, person
X receives their a CC cover and Person Y does not.
And this state of affair continues for five years
and will identify those five years as starting at point A,
being the date of injury
and ending at point B,
being the date when person wise cover is recognized.
And at that stage, at point B, both
of them are on equal footing.
Now, person X who does have a CC cover receives
as their main benefit.
So we'll usually terms of the bill here for clarity, uh, low
or loss of potential earnings set at 80% of minimum wage.
And they receive that for the full five years.
Now, as their supplementary entitlements, they receive,
for example, rehabilitation in the form of, uh, therapy
or of physiotherapy or other clinical interventions.
They receive vocational rehab so that they can either return
to their pre-injury role
or adapt to their new normal and find a new role.
And they can receive adjunct
or supplementary entitlements such as, uh, transportation,
home health, even educational support.
And that's because they were appropriately assessed
and were triaged into the correct, uh, ministerial role.
Uh, plus, and y on the other hand, was subject
to an era of some kind.
They did not receive a CC support when they should have,
and it took those five years between point A
and point B for that to be established.
Now, for those five years,
that person received the main benefit or,
or living systems under MSD to the tune of 52%
of the minimum wage.
And their supplementary benefits were, say, accommodation,
which you only get if you need it.
Winter energy support,
which I understand isn't means tested,
but amounts only to about $500 a year.
And due to the type of injury they suffered, uh, access
to disability support, which with which they might pay
for their own medication, transport therapy, et cetera.
And as I say, this continues for five years.
And the resolution here is what we're really concerned
with is at point B when both persons are now viewed
as equal under the law.
Person X who received their support the whole time
as they were due, has been rehabilitated.
They've been receiving this higher amount the whole time.
They have likely returned to work or
otherwise been sufficiently rehabilitated
to return to an alternative role.
But person y who has been the unfortunate victim of an error
and has been receiving a lower quantum for those four,
five years, is essentially starting
to gain from the beginning.
They are now receiving their rehabilitation support.
They're now receiving their vocational entitlements.
And this bill seeks to treat those people retrospectively,
as always having been on the same footing.
And that, I think is the inequity that is being highlighted
by the submitters, is that regardless of whether
or not the bill itself applies retrospectively,
the conclusion to the bill will always
inherently be retrospective.
It is deeming a state of affairs that did not, in fact occur
to have occurred over a period of time
and punishing the persons, um, not
entitled at first instance, to a CC support
for their inability to either tell the future
or to convince a ministry without years of
often quite difficult litigation
that they were in fact entitled to it in the first place.
Now, that actually brings me to my second point, which is
that this highlights an inconsistency
between the way the proposed bill administers, um, with,
with regard to errors
and the way the current legislation does.
So let's view the reverse situation where somebody
who should not have received a CC cover does in fact get it.
If they had a congenital mental injury, for example,
that was misdiagnosed as a consequence of trauma
and cover was awarded,
they could access this vastly more expensive rehabilitation.
They could access all
of these supplementary assistances such as, uh, education
and vocational rehabilitation.
And corporation has a second look
and says, sorry, we shouldn't have awarded this.
We're revoking it. They get to keep all
of those supplementary assistance items.
There is, even though they were receiving perhaps lots
of potential earnings at a much higher rate than they
would've otherwise been receiving the m SD benefit, they get
to keep it specifically
because there was no element of wrongdoing on their part.
Now, the same thing happens if this was merely an
administrative error, if it was deemed cover
where say a statutory timeframe hasn't been met.
So through no fault of either the party, no fault of a c,
no fault of the recipient, they do
nonetheless receive save in a surgical entitlement
or personal impairment compensation, which can be
to the tune of several hundreds of thousands of dollars, uh,
unless there was an element of wrongdoing,
unless there was fraud or misleading, they get to keep that.
And there is no rational reason why a more injured party
who is being more significantly disadvantaged should at the
resolution of substantially similar proceedings,
be disadvantaged by this bill, particularly when
that comes inherently retrospective effect,
not only built into the bill,
but into the actual structure
of these debt repayments themselves.
But because there's simply no rationale to it.
Now, the last part that I'll just very quickly make is that
the intent as we see it of this bill is to, for the crown
to reclaim money from citizens.
'cause otherwise, it's simply a, a debt balancing act
between Crown agencies
and with respect even that goal, we don't see
as actually being satisfied by the proposed bill.
So to make these figures a bit more real,
I'll just use those in the case of b,
where this person had been appropriately receiving MSD
support instead of a CC support for a period of 13 years.
The debt at issue was only $14,000 over those years.
That was settled initially in 2019
and only came to a head in 2005.
Being six years further of ongoing litigation
during which there will have been costs paid by the Ministry
of Justice to the courts
and to representatives,
that person will no doubt have been receiving ongoing
clinical assessments in order to verify the kind of support
that they needed under a CC.
And as I say, during those 13 years,
they were not receiving the initial
rehabilitation that they needed.
So I suggest that the, as I believe one
of the earliest submitters, um, Reitan suggested
that the appropriate efficient solution isn't to try
and put a, a financial barrier
to the ambulance at the bottom of the cliff,
but rather to ensure that these kinds
of administrative errors are not made at first instance.
Um, the last thing that I wish to point out on that is
that the new proposed bill would actually implement
financial consequences for the partners
of these injured people as well,
which do not presently exist
under the act is currently constructed.
And the bill itself is replete with must clauses.
MSD must assess. MSD must look into this,
that itself is a significant administrative burden
for a return that may not actually be worth it in the end,
particularly when you take into account the fact
that a CC will be involved at the end there.
There'll be more counsel if that person needs representation
because of the financial status, they're likely
to get a Ministry of Justice grant, et cetera, et cetera.
We're dealing with relatively low recovery fig figures
and relatively high cost of getting those, uh,
that recovery back to the crown.
So in my written submission, we've included a brief example
of how this bill might be more effectively enacted
as a debt zeroing exercise between ministries, including,
actually this was not something that I'd thought of earlier
that, that Ms. Burton brought up that IRD actually needs
to be involved as well, because if MSD is claiming
that the gross cost
and not the net, then the government is themselves double
dipping being the very misstep
that they accused these victims of,
of sexual assault to be doing.
I do apologize if that took too long,
but I welcome any questions.
Uh, thank you Mil, we yep.
Uh, we almost have time,
but look, uh, one, uh, Ricardo, quickly,
Thank you very much for your both, uh, your two examples.
Hey, um, the k kind of case studies that you gave us
for hypothetical case studies, um, the second one
that took five years, what kind
of demographic profile would you be looking at
that would normally take five years to be able
to get their a CC claim? Who are we talking about?
Certainly the best example that I can probably give
and the most common one across my desk personally are often
victims of sexual assault who have an element
of physical injury as well due to the violence
with which the assault was committed.
Now, there can often be a bit of a dispute
between the interplay of physical injuries arising from
that, uh, those events
and mental injuries,
which the corporation will often reasonably or
otherwise, uh, consider to disentitle that person.
Because if they can't tell the origin of the incapacity,
they have reasonable grounds
to say, oh, we shouldn't be covering it.
Now, that person may well be languishing under MSD support
and not receiving rehabilitation for the five years.
It takes their case to progress
through the various physicians, et cetera,
until we reach somebody who's sufficiently experienced
to say, this is where this comes from, cover should
or should not be awarded.
Thank you. Uh, Helen, we question?
Sorry. Um, I thought we'd run out of time, but thank you.
It's an amazing submission.
Um, and I just wanted to talk to you about the must clause,
um, because I take your point.
Do you think that we could, when you look at it,
could we replace that with some form of discretion
that might look us, let us look at this kind of situation?
Absolutely. I think that worths bill to proceed,
which I suggest isn't wise, that adding an element
of discretion here would certainly be almost necessary
to ensure it's administrative viability, because
otherwise you are going to end up with a team
of people looking into all of the financial consequences
for the claimant themselves.
Any partners, if it's been 13 years,
there might be multiple partners who are all beneficiaries,
who would be affected, et cetera.
So an element of discretion there is certainly useful in
terms of ballparking the ultimate recovery figure
and saying, Hey, this isn't worth it.
Thank you. Thank you very much Merlin for,
uh, making that submission this afternoon.
Appreciate it. All right.
Our next, uh, submitter is, uh, Alexandra, Alexandra Hoon.
You there? Alexandra, if, just turn on your camera
and uh, press the unmute button.
Sorry. I'm just, oh,
There we go. We, we can, we
can hear you now
Setting itself after I've gone through
Good stuff. Now we can, can
see and hear now, so great. Thank you.
Look, we've got, uh, five minutes with you this afternoon.
So look, the time is yours when you're ready to go.
Okay. I'll start on what I have ready
and any questions at the end.
Um, I'm opposed
for the proposed insertion of section
1 9 8 A into the Social Security Acts of 2018.
I wish to make it clear that I accept
that long standing policies that we,
a person receives a main benefit for a period later covered
by backdated a CC compensation.
The main benefit amount should be refunded under section
2 5 2 of the Accident Compensation Act 2001.
My concern is not about the repayments of the main benefits
of income to support of benefit,
which in some cases can be cre created over many years.
My case is five.
Um, others I'm, I'm aware of, have a longer timeframe.
The question you have to ask is, how can this happen?
In my case, five review hearings
and one court hearing later, all in my favor,
this took an enormous amount of time
and legal costs to both parties were enormous.
In my case, A CC um, had to cover the costs
because the costs were awarded.
My concern is about the extending recovery
to specific supplementary assistance,
including accommodation, supplement,
temporary additional support, disability allowance,
and went, uh, winter energy payments.
These payments are not based income replacements.
They're needs based assessments at the point in time
for a person that urgently requires assistance
to meet the base basic essential living costs, such as rent
power and any disability related expenses when they based
income is insufficient.
When I was employed, I was a,
I was paid the minimum wage rate.
Now, after five years, that rate is at 80%
of the minimum wage rate.
It isn't that a contradiction in itself, minimum is minimum,
but not where a CC is concerned.
It seems to be very one-sided.
Why this amendment raises fairness concerns.
When a CC delays
or under recognizes any entitlements,
individuals often experience genuine financial
hardship during that period.
Supplementary assistance is provided
because the person does not have enough income
to meet the basic living costs.
Accommodation, supplement
and temporary additional support are assessed based on
actual income and actual housing costs
during the relevant period of time.
The need was real at the time of the assistant was granted
living on breadline, waiting for a CC to make their decision
because the process is lengthy is
and is not mentally conjunctive with, with claimants
backdated, a CC mental, uh, backdated,
a CC compensation corrects an income underpayment.
It does not change the fact
that at the time the person did not have the access
to their income opportunities lost to that person.
Should they be charged ac should they be charging a CC use
of money interest similar to what IRD does
because the funds were rightly there
and they have lost the enjoyment
that goes were being paid correctly.
The a CC scheme is intended to provide timely
and effective compensation for injury where delays occur,
individual individuals should not face addit additional
financial liability because the system does not operate
as intended, as I've mentioned in my case,
was five year period, and others is longer reassessing
and recovering that assistance retrospectively treats
individuals if they had had income that they did not have
turning that support into debt
after the fact risks undermining the purpose
of the social security system.
The social security framework exists to prevent hardship
and ensure essential living costs can be met when the
income is insufficient.
Supplementary assistance is designed to respond
to real-time needs, retrospect,
recovery requests weakens the protective function.
The key distinctions, repayment of the main benefit
preserves the principle of income substitution.
Recovery of supplementary assistant goes further.
It converts genuine hardship support
into retrospective debt, even
where the support reflected real need at that time.
There is a mental health side to all of this,
and most people who are going through this same process
with a CC or private providers not only suffer from their
injuries, but also suffer from mental health
illnesses caused by long-term drawn out processes.
And as in my case, I said
before five years, if I didn't have the mental
or financial support from my father,
who knows the mental state I would've been in,
would I have been, would I have had the ability
to fight a CC and its associates for so long
or what I've given up like most people do
when they're worn out by the process?
Now, where is the fairness in that?
Not that long ago, IRD undertook a harsh debt recovery
regime, and one of the outcomes
to this was people taking their own lives.
And we were gonna see another government department
repeating history all over again due
to mental health issues created by this very debacle.
If re reconciliation between a CC
and MSD is required,
this should occur at a government accounting level rather
than imposing additional debt on injured individuals.
Lexander, we we are over time.
How, how much more have you got?
We do have your written submission as well.
Um, just three lines. Okay, thanks.
I, I recommend that section 1 9 8 A not be enacted
or if enacted, it should exclude recovery of specifics,
but supplementary assistance with where hardship arose due
to delays or underpaid a CC entitlements.
Remember, this is called by a ccc, not the claimant.
Public confidence in both a CC and MSD depends on fairness.
Injured people should not bear the cost
of institutional delays. And that's me.
No thank, thank you, Andrew. I appreciate you, uh,
appearing for the committee and making a submission this
afternoon and, and, uh, yep.
No, uh, appreciate you making oral submission
and, uh, your written submission as well.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
Alright, our, uh, next, uh, submitter is, um,
Hazel Armstrong, I believe on behalf
of Armstrong Thompson Law.
Good afternoon, Hazel. We can see you.
Could you say something else or just
couldn't hear you straight?
Yes. Hello. We got excellent. Thank you.
Look good Afternoon. Welcome.
We have 10 minutes with you this afternoon.
Um, if you wish to leave time for questions,
please feel free to do so, but
otherwise, um, uh, uh, take it away. Time is yours.
Yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
Select committee. Um, so I want
to particularly address the question
of social rehabilitation and treatment.
So a person gets weekly compensation at 80%
of their pre-injury earnings,
or as of the case of, um, Alexandra, who you've just met,
she was, um, on the uplift, which is 80% of the,
um, minimum wage.
Um, and in the a CC scheme,
social rehabilitation is not paid out
or treatment is not paid out of the weekly compensation.
It's an entitlement sitting above weekly compensation.
So the act provides for weekly compensation,
rehabilitation, um, as well as treatment.
So you've got various entitlements
and they're not traded off against each other.
The the issue that I see is that, um, social rehabilitation,
which a person might obtain when they're not covered
by a CC, uh, will be mainly gained out
of the disability allowance as I understand it.
Uh, but then they're expected under this bill,
as I understand this bill, to then reimburse, um,
MSD for the social rehabilitation that they've received,
uh, and also the treatment.
Um, and so it, it's not a, a double dipping as I see it.
Um, so the people will be required to use their arrears
of weekly compensation to reimburse the cost
of social rehabilitation that
otherwise would've been funded by a CC for a person
to be eligible for, uh, social rehabilitation
and treatment for that matter.
There is a process, um, they have to apply for it.
Uh, they have to be assessed
as needing it due to the covered injury.
Um, and there has to be prior approval before the funding.
So, and then there's a discretion, uh,
sitting in there as well.
So there's quite a robust process, uh,
for obtaining social rehabilitation and treatment.
Uh, my suggestion, which I have at the, um, end
of my very brief submission is that if, uh,
MSD is desperate for the money,
that they don't take it from the individual, uh, claimant,
that they seek the reimbursement from a CC themselves,
um, rather than from the person outta their
weekly compensation.
So I, I, I kind of resist the concept
that it's a double dipping,
and I I wouldn't mind if we could have some time
to discuss whether or not,
actually it really is a double dipping.
Um, I think Helen White asked a question about discretion
in the a CC legislation.
There's a waiver provision, um, in relation to overpayment,
and I'm suggesting that there needs to be some discretion,
um, here, uh, whether you try
and recover, um, issues, uh, payments that were made,
uh, under the heading of treatment
and, uh, social rehabilitation.
Another suggestion that I saw from, um,
another submitter was that there was a cap on recovery,
for example, $2,000,
but personally, I don't think there should have to be
a reimbursement for, uh, medical costs and rehabilitation.
So I'm being very brief to allow us to have some opportunity
for some questions.
Thank you. Well, thank you, Bazel.
I appreciate that submission. Uh, we,
we have first question from Ricardo.
Thank you very much. Just two quick questions.
The first one is, we have previously, uh, heard, uh, members
of parliament describing this bill as addressing inequities.
Why would you say to that?
And secondly, do you have any comments
on the potential impacts this could have on partners
of a CC claimants who may be receiving a main benefit?
Yes. Um, I could,
I can't really speak very well on the partners
because I don't work enough in that, um, uh,
you know, disability sector.
I'm an a CC lawyer, uh, primarily.
Um, but in terms of inequity, the, the difficulty
that I think we are facing here is that the person, all
of the people that are captured by this are people
who have struggled to get their, their rightful entitlement.
And in Alexandra's case, over five years,
five reviews, one court hearing.
Um, but I handle a lot. So there was another question.
Who does this pick up?
Uh, John Miller Law answered it in terms of sexual abuse.
I don't do that sort of stuff primarily.
I mainly do a lot of work with workers
and I, I'm funded through unions,
and you are getting this, uh, situation
because you're dealing with accredited employers who,
who know how to say no.
And, um, and so you've got a very, um,
risk averse accredited employer regime who are saying no.
And so the person doesn't get their, uh,
re they don't get their entitlement when they should.
Mm-hmm. So that is the main body of people that I'm dealing
with, which are genuine workers who may have lost their jobs
because of injury, and they haven't got entitlement.
So the inequity actually arises, uh,
by the way that these people were
Treated. What kind of injuries
are we talking about that,
you know, that you would've seen?
Because I think, you know, e everyday people may not be very
aware of the kind of injuries
that can result in the loss of, of job.
Like do you have any, any sort of examples?
Oh, yes. Plenty. So, uh, you're a meat worker and,
and you injure your shoulders or one shoulder
because, you know, a carcass is very heavy.
Um, it, it's that kind of things.
And there's no light duties.
You either can do it or you can't.
Uh, and so your, uh, your employment is terminated.
I do a lot of work in the transport sector.
Um, these guys are dealing with heavy plant and equipment,
and if they can't lift off in their backs, uh, hips, knees,
uh, they lose their jobs
and they're dependent on weekly compensation.
So unlike John Mul law, I'm mainly dealing with work injury.
Um, and even there you've got, uh, a lot of people
who are missing out on weekly compensation, largely
in many cases because they're covered by credit employers
who, who try to minimize the cost
and they just shift the cost onto, um, you know,
social welfare in this case.
My Question hill, thank you.
Does that, does that answer your
Question? Yes. Thank you, Hazel. Appreciate
it.
Yes, Lovely to see you.
Thank you for coming and talking to us.
I have, um, a question, which is about what,
we've had quite a few submissions on the different package
of care that you might have under a CC.
Yes. From what you're receiving, do you think
that it might be possible?
Like, uh, there's such a,
it looks like there's such a difference in
actual value of that.
Yes. Isn't it possible to see this through the lens of
actually a CCA saving a lot of money
by not giving that care in that period?
There must be a huge difference,
and the state must be saving a huge amount
of money if it's not rehabilitating,
not meeting at a CEC obligations during that time.
Helen, I think it's harshest
with the accredit employer scheme.
Uh, 'cause they've got a direct financial benefit
by denying surgery.
Um, so you've got a person who's hurt his shoulder
and they deny surgery, you then have to litigate.
Um, so yes, their
initial concern is to save money in the short term.
They don't care who picks it up later on.
Um, but there is a, there's a lot of money behind all
of this because you've got treatment,
which is not only surgery, but physiotherapy.
And on that point, I don't know
how long I've got their chair,
but physiotherapy is extremely good.
Uh, if it's done at the time that the person is injured
because they can get back to work.
Um, I happen to be on the Port of Auckland board
where I'm actually speaking to you from,
we've got in-house physios and we get our lashes
and stevedores back to work quickly.
If you are cut off, uh, not getting your cover
or assistance, your injury will deteriorate over time.
Yeah. Um, and that is, I suppose that's an inequity
And it's, yeah, thank you.
It's a cost that those people are paying.
Yeah. Yes. Mm-hmm. You
Very much a systemic issue, um, maybe
with the processing times,
but look, um, just in terms of, we've got a couple
of questions still to go, uh, Willie, if we
Thank you. Thank you for
your cordal today, Hazel. Excellent.
Um, I just wanted a view from you,
if you were summing this up,
do you think are being mean-spirited about the whole thing?
I don't think, I don't mind.
Uh, as Alexander says, we just accept main benefit
needs to be paid back.
There's no, no problem with that. We all understand it.
I advise my clients, first up,
you're on a benefit when we get, uh, arrears
of weekly compensation, you'll have to pay tax
and you'll have to, um, pay back the main benefit.
It's the supplementary.
I think that's the problem here, Willie.
Um, it's
because I, I don't think that people fully understood, um,
the interface between a c, C and, and,
and the, um, MSD system.
So maybe people
who under thought technically they could get the money back,
but they didn't know how it kind of worked.
That was my conclusion with this bill, that there was a lack
of primary understanding Yeah.
Of, um, of the different systems.
And I don't think, sorry, Willie if I'm raving on a bit,
but I don't think that they realized
that social rehabilitation
and treatment is on top of weekly compensation.
Um, and that's where the inequity comes,
that you're expecting people to pay for things that
otherwise they would've received out
of their weekly compensation.
And that is just not right.
Thank you. Thank You. Does
that make sense, Lou? All? Yeah.
All, all good. All good.
No thank, thanks Hazel.
Uh, we we're over time
and we've just got a couple more questions.
So, and you, ill last submit.
I might, um, just, uh, take advantage of
that if the committee's agreeable and, uh, move to Maureen.
Um, thank you, Mr. Chair.
Hazel, thank you so much for your submission.
I guess, um, in a nutshell,
if you were looking at the high court decision mm-hmm.
What would be your remedy?
What would you suggest as a remedy?
Well, I mean, I think, Warren, thank you for the question.
There's been two, this decision
and the TNN decision, another, you know, um,
a high another judgment.
Um, I think
what is happening here is the courts are actually applying
the law properly.
So I don't know that you need a remedy as such.
I certainly don't think you try
and, uh, undo, um, this decision.
So I don't think that's the response.
Um, I think you, you, your committee needs to understand
how the system works and I think the high court got it.
Right. So I don't think you need to remedy it as such.
I think you've, you've got the tools, which is
to get the main benefit back.
Um, and, uh, can I say any more? No, not really.
I think you should abandon this bill personally.
Um, yeah, I dunno that you will,
but I put some suggestions there that if you can't get,
you can't stomach abandoning it, um, I think you need to,
uh, put a ring fence around the, um,
the iniquities that I see in it.
If I just might just, um, jump in
with a supplementary question on that.
Hazel, just, uh, could you just clarify
'cause with, you know, benefit of your expertise, the,
my understanding is this is, um, the idea
of this is the confirmed longstanding policy of the, um,
military social development.
Mm. Um, and until of course, obviously
that court case in October last year, which said
that the law had been I improperly applied.
Yes. What, what is the substantive difference in terms
of the way the policy has been applied?
Yes. And how it would be applied with this law change?
Yes. Well, actually I've been doing this work Joseph,
for quite a long time, as you can tell by looking at me.
Um, and they had in the past been, um, taking supplementary
as you know, uh, out of, uh, people's, um, arrears
of weekly compensation.
I did actually take it to, um, through the, um, their,
their appeals process.
'cause I just found it so harsh on the clients, but lost.
So when, when, um, I think community law um, took this up
and there was kind of a change, I, I celebrated it
because it seemed to me the right thing.
So I, that's why I am sort
of pushing back against Maureen's idea of
what remedy I'd look.
I'd say go with it
because this is the correct decision, uh,
that the high court has, um, has, has issued,
um, just like in TNN that that's the correct decision too.
So, um, yes, I think it's, it was not, um,
it was not done well in the past
and it was really harsh for the, for the clients
that I've been handling over the years. Thank
You. I might this la last
question from Laura.
Uh, thanks Mr. Chair
and thank you Hazel for your submission.
Um, I just wanna play like flip this around a bit
and sort of play semi devil's advocate.
Do you think then, if this was to go ahead,
that a CC should be paying or covering some of those costs?
'cause some of the other submitters said, you know,
a CC covers, you know, rehabilitation
or, um, you know, mental health, all those kind of things.
Um, and that is the sort of stuff that people would've used,
maybe their disability allowance or,
or some of their extra supplementary, um, benefits
that they now need to pay back.
Um, do you think then that when a CC is giving this kind
of compensation that then maybe there should be an element
of that if it is that MSD needs to recoup it?
You mean that, uh, is your question Laura,
that a CC should be the agency that reimburses MD
Correct. Yeah.
Not the individual. I'm
Just, yeah, I think Taking it as a way Yeah,
Yeah. Yeah. I, i look,
I think there is some merit in that,
although it, because why, why I kind of prefaced
how a CC goes about sorting, you know, deciding whether
or not a person needs social
rehabilitation or even treatment.
Mm. There's quite a process there with a, a fair bit
of exercise of discretion so that they say,
does the person need it?
Right, okay. Uh, does, is it needed for that covered injury?
Uh, have they been assessed appropriately?
Um, have I, can I give it prior approval?
In other words, not retrospective.
So if I'm a person who was so desperate, which is one
of my clients currently so desperate to keep his job,
that he paid for the surgery, he got no prior approval,
that I will then have a bit of a problem
of getting him reimbursed.
Uh, yeah. For that it's
because there's certain rules, uh, I think it would,
a CC would have to change its processes.
Mm-hmm. And God talk about bureaucracy. Yeah. Yeah.
Don't wanna open another can of worms, but Yeah.
Yeah. What's your ministry
of regulations supposed to be doing?
Yeah, totally. Well, I think it would be a headache.
Absolutely. Cool. Thank you. Thank
You. Well, thank, thank you very much.
It's, um, been, been, um,
been helpful I think for the committee
to hear from this afternoon. So I appreciate that.
Yeah. I really appreciate the opportunity.
Thank you very much. Thank
You.
Alright, that concludes, um, public submission.
So members have just can, um, go
and click on the private link and we'll see you back.
Um, for consideration, I.